My dear brothers and sisters, welcome to
the first session of the of Mtah
Institute as a part of their winter 2023
uh program. So my name is Nave Aiz and
I'll just give you a quick introduction
to myself and then we can begin with.
So, I was born and raised in Montreal,
Canada, and I eventually went to study
at the Islamic University of Medina,
where I spent uh three years doing a
diploma in the Arabic language, followed
by a bachelor's in Sharia in Islamic
law. And obviously, you can tell I'm
quite nervous. Subhan Allah. There's so
many technological things uh that I had
to make sure that we got right and to
make sure that my material is ready and
we completely forgot to start in the
right way. So, let us start over again.
Alhamdulillah.
We begin in the name of Allah subhana wa
ta'ala. We praise him. We thank him. We
seek his aid and assistance and we ask
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to bless this
gathering of ours and to make it a proof
for us and not a proof against us. May
Allah subhanana wa ta'ala open the doors
of knowledge and wisdom for us and open
the deeper meanings of the Quran to us
and make us from the people of the Quran
and his exclusive people.
Allah that is much better.
Alhamdulillah. Okay. So what I wanted to
start off with is firstly I wanted to go
through the uh curriculum with
you and then thereafter
um I will start the PowerPoint
presentation. So firstly, let's start
off with the curriculum. Hopefully you
can see it on your
screen. I'll just make it full screen.
There we go. So this is the curriculum.
Um course credits 3 hours. It's going to
be running from January 9th till April
23rd. Sorry, from January 9th till April
3rd. Uh and what that means is that the
last two weeks are going to be in
Ramadan. So, we will be making some
adjustments to the scheduling at that
time. The general class time will be on
Mondays from uh 8:00 p.m. to 9:20 p.m.
uh but generally speaking, my classes
will only be about an hour long. If we
go over maximum till
9:20, but as a general rule, they'll be
1 hour long. I try to keep it about 45
to 50 minutes for actual class time and
then leave about 10 minutes uh for uh
question and answers and discussion and
then if we need extra time uh we can
take extra time. With regards to the
course description uh trials are an
inseparable part of uh life in this
world. Our prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam taught us to recite surah al
kah every Friday to protect ourselves
from the fit of this world including the
greatest of them that the jal the cave
of faith is an in-depth study of the
themes messages and lessons learned from
surah al kah with pauses to reflect on
the fiten we face today and deriving
inspiration from the four timeless tales
that the surah is structured around and
we'll be getting into uh what those four
uh timeless uh stories actually are from
the learning of objectives is is a deep
dive to analyze the context in which
surah al kah was revealed the journey
learn about stories in surah al kah and
then contest and examples derive lessons
from the stories in surah al kah
assignments and expectations every
student is responsible to complete two
mandatory exams during the semester in
order to receive credit for the course
these exams must be completed by a
specific deadline and students will be
given at least one week to complete them
at the bottom of the curriculum we have
the dates for
Students will also have optional uh
weekly assignments uploaded to
schoolology
um that they can complete as a review.
These assignments will not be graded.
However, they will help uh with
achieving better scores in the midterm
and final exams. We'll be using uh
school
schoolology for any quizzes and
assignments. Then you have the login
information that is there. And then the
last thing I wanted to cover with you is
the uh scheduling. So today's January
9th, we're just going to be having an
introduction to the surah and then from
next week we start with verses uh 1 to
10. Dates that you want to take note of
are February 13th where that is where
the first exam your midterm exam will
open up and then February 20th that is
where your exam will be due by that is
where your exam will be due by and then
Ramadan will be beginning somewhere
around March 23rd or so. So around March
27th the class timing will be different.
So please please be do uh do pay
attention to that and likewise for April
3rd class timing will be different and
this is when your final exam will be
posted and it will be due by April 12th.
So you'll get a little bit over a week
to um finish that
exam. So that is the um curriculum. That
is the curriculum.
Now uh so all of this information is uh
available to you in your student portal.
So if you go to um the MIDA uh institute
um online seminary then uh you can get
it from there and you should be able to
get it in your email as well as some of
the students have pointed out as some of
the students have pointed out. So now
let's jump in into the um PowerPoint
presentation which I believe uh you have
as well. So let's go
here. So the
of now the introduction to the surah is
actually let me make this full screen as
well. Uh enter full screen. There we go.
So hopefully all of you can see it
inshallah. So surah is surah number 18.
It is a mecc surah. What exactly does it
mean for a surah to be mecc when we say
that a surah is mek? We say that it
means that it was revealed prior to the
hijra. It doesn't necessarily mean that
it was revealed in Mecca itself. And
when a surah is mi that means that it
was revealed after the hijra. It was
revealed after the hijra. And that is
what makes a surah medi and not
necessarily the fact that it was
revealed in Medina. Now when we look at
Mecc and Medin suras you'll find that
there are certain themes that uh take
place in those suras. So when you look
at Medini suras you'll often find that
that is where the fick uh rulings uh are
placed. A lot of the fick rulings are
are placed there. Topics of governance
will often take place. Um in Medani
suras as well the Medini suras will
generally be longer and will not be as
uh emotion emotional and likewise will
will uh not be as descriptive. Whereas
when you look at the Meccan suras Mecc
suras will focus on three things. Mak
suras will focus on three main things.
Number one is focusing on the oneness of
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and his sole
right uh to be recognized as a creator
and a sustainer his soul right uh to be
woripped uh alone then number two is the
which is the prophethood of the prophets
and messengers you'll find that some of
the muon they will say uh that you know
historical context or history um is what
they will refer to over here but what is
more specific are these stories of the
prophet And this
establishes and the concept of
prophethood and the concept of
prophethood. And then last but not least
life after death meaning uh the the
anything that will take place um after
one's death all the way till kyama all
the way till kyama. So really hammering
home and bringing home the articles of
faith that we are familiar with. belief
in Allah subhana wa ta'ala, belief in
the prophets and messengers, belief in
the books, belief in the angels, belief
in the day of judgment and inad and
inad. So bringing home these articles of
faith. So that is what a lot of the mak
suras will focus on. So that is the
first 13 years of revelation. That is
the first 13 years of revelation and
then in the medi phase we have a lot of
the a lot of the governance um that will
take place. Now is there a wisdom behind
this layout of the suras and without a
shadow of a doubt whatever Allah subhana
wa ta'ala does is filled with infinite
wisdom often times things that we cannot
understand for ourselves and we can try
to assume what that wisdom is. So Allah
subhana wa ta'ala wanted to build the
faith of the people first and teach them
everything that they needed to know to
sustain their iman so that when it came
time to do things they knew how to
submit to the command of Allah. They
knew how to command submit to the
command of Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala. So
that is what the layout is actually for.
Now this surah is surah number 18 and it
takes place
between and surah is and it has a very
deep connection with surah is and we'll
come to to look at
that but you will also find connections
with surah you'll also find connections
with surah mariam now this science of
finding connections between the previous
surah and the surah after it and also
ays in the Quran like an ayah before it
and an ayah after it. This is known as
tanasub. This is known as tanas. And one
of the most famous that has been written
uh on this science is
called by this is one of the most famous
books on. So you'll find whole books
that have been written on this subject.
That is one of the most famous of them.
Now is this actually something that we
know through revelation meaning are
either a hadith that will tie suras
together or is this a lot uh based
uponad and you'll find that it is most
of it is based upon
uh meaning that it can be right or wrong
and then some bits and pieces of it are
actually based upon revelation some bits
and pieces of it are actually based upon
revelation meaning from the hadith of
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
So it's not a precise science but it is
a very interesting and fascinating
approach to the Quran to understand how
these suras are related with one
another. Now understanding that a lot of
the ordering of the suras came from
Allah subhana wa tala and the messenger
of Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam but
then you also have portions of it that
came from the of Sahabah that came from
the of the Sahabah. So what these
scholars are now trying to look at is
what were the Sahabah seeing in putting
these uh suras together in putting these
suras together. The number of ayat in
the surah are 110 and out of these 110
ayat that are there 70 of them encompass
uh the story the main stories in the in
the surah. So you have the story of the
people of the cave and then you have the
story of the the man with two gardens.
Then you have the story of Mus and then
you have the story
of 70 ayat ayat approximately out of the
110 are related to that are related to
that. So that is the breakdown of the
110 ayat that are there. Now connection
to the previous surah as I mentioned
inah
uh there are certain things that Allah
subhana t mentions that are tied toah
and what I want to do is quickly go into
the reason of revelation over here. So
you notice in the reason of revelation
what actually ended up happening was
that the quray wanted to see if the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam was
actually a true prophet and messenger.
The Quraysh wanted to see if the prophet
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam was
actually a true prophet and messenger.
So they thought to themselves, you know
what? Let us go and ask the people of
the book. Let us go and ask the people
of the book. And the only ones that they
knew at that time were the Jewish tribes
in Medina. Were the Jewish tribes in
Medina. So the Quraysh chose two people
at that time. They chose
another
andbui. These are the two that they
chose according to
Imortal. So these two individuals, they
went to the Jewish tribes and said there
is a man from amongst us that claims to
be a prophet. How do we actually verify
if he is a prophet? So then they sent
these two back with these three
questions. Who are the people of the
cave? who is and what is and what
is so these two men they go back to the
Quran and they're excited that we have
the tools that we need to verify if this
man Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
is actually a prophet uh uh and and
messenger or if he's just fabricating
stories or if he is just fabricating
stories. So the next day they go to the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam and
they tell him we want to ask you about
the following matters. We want to ask
you about the young men that went into
the cave and what was their plight. We
want to ask you
about this ruler that went all over the
earth and then we want to ask you about
we want to ask you
about. So the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam he tells them come back to me
tomorrow and I will have an answer for
you and I will have an answer for you.
But the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam did not say inshallah did not
say
inshallah. So the next day they came
back and the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam didn't have any answers for
them because no revelation had come
down. And then some narrations mentioned
three days, other narrations mentioned
15 days. But all of was revealed at one
uh time either three days later or 15
days later. And in Allah subhana wa tala
teaches the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam and do not say adamantly that I
will be doing something tomorrow except
if Allah subhana wa ta'ala wills it.
Meaning that always add inshallah and
inshallah is one of the ways we seek
baraka from Allah subhana wa ta'ala by
saying that by the will of Allah you
know I will do such and such and such
and such will happen. May Allah subhana
wa ta'ala bless it. All these implied
meanings are there behind it. So now
when is revealed Allah subhana wa ta'ala
answers two of these questions. Who are
the people of the cave and who is who
is and with regards to with regards to
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala reveals it
inah Allah subhana wa tala reveals it
inah. So now let's go back to over here.
We look at the connection between the
suras. You have the two uh answers
in and then the answer
in so mentioned stories of the Jews and
surah mentions stories of the
Christians. mentioned stories of the
Christians and this is something that we
will explore
together. Ends with the praise of Allah
and begins with the praise of Allah and
both suras mention different parts of
the life of the prophet Mus Alisam. Both
stories mention different parts of the
life of the prophet Musam. So these are
the connections that we can establish.
These are the connections that we can
establish. Now I want to quickly jump to
this section and then we'll come back to
the first slide is that from the virtues
of is the fact that you will be
protected by is this is that you will be
protected from and the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam he tells
us that whoever memorizes 10 ayat from
the beginning of kaf will be protected
by the jan and we're going to get into
the virtues in in a bit of detail uh in
a little bit and we'll talk about is it
actually the beginning or is it the end
and you know what is the best thing to
do but we will um get to that slightly
but what I wanted to focus on is that we
understand that from the virtues of kah
is the protection of is the protection
of now let us get back to the themes of
of the surah because the themes of the
surah are very closely related to the
concept of being protected from the
themes of the surah are very closely
related to being protected from the
trials of the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam he tells us u you know some
very interesting points that no prophet
and messenger has come except that he
warned his nation against the dal And
that the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam he also tells us that I and the
hour uh have been sent together
basically meaning that the proximity of
his two fingers. The famous hadith of
you know the orphan and how the prophet
put his fingers together just like that
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
made the ishara that I and the day of
judgment have been sent together like
this meaning that the day of judgment is
very very close to the time of the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam. Now
how does that actually work? Well, if
you look at the whole concept of
creation and how the earth has been here
for billions of years, then the last few
thousand years are actually very very
close together in proximity. And we
notice that time is getting faster not
in terms of the number of seconds that u
are there are being reduced but rather
how quick it actually feels. So time is
going to keep getting faster over a
period of time until the jal comes and
then one day will last uh like a year
and so on and so forth till one day
finally becomes a day and this will
happen for about 40 days. This will
happen for about 40 days. Now during
this time Adjal will have an immense
amount of knowledge, will have an
immense amount of wealth, will have an
immense amount of power and uh will have
an immense amount of of fame as well
that everyone's going to be talking
about him. Everyone's going to want to
be uh surrounding themselves with that
dal. Everyone is going to want the
wealth that that dal has. So these
themes that are in the surah are
directly related to this. So the trial
of im of the people of the cave it
teaches us and just for you know uh
putting it on the record the reason why
the surah is called surah is surrounding
the young men that were in the cave
surrounding the young men that were in
the cave and this is the trial of iman
that these young men went into the cave
fearing persecution and also wanting to
protect their iman also wanting to
protect their iman and then when they
wake up after a few hundred years they
find that all of their people have
become believers. So this shows us the
importance of protecting your im and
also surrounding yourself in with good
companionship. And similarly when the
time of comes you want to do that which
you have to with regards to protecting
your iman and trying your utmost best to
surround yourself with righteous
company. to surround yourself with
righteous company. Now one thing I
forgot to mention is that the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam he actually
teaches us to seek refuge uh in Allah
from the evil trials of at the end of
salah that here we are taught to seek
refuge in Allah subhana wa ta'ala from
several things from the trials of the
grave from the trials of life and death
and from the trials of the false
maj. So this is something that we should
get into the habit of saying at the end
of our salsas. There's a an interesting
uh narration from from the uh students
of
Abbas that he taught his children this
dua and if he saw them praying but they
didn't make this dua he would tell them
to repeat their salah. He would tell
them to repeat their salah. So this is
something that's very important to
memorize. Now not saying this dua will
not nullify your salah or invalidate
your salah or make your salah deficient,
but you are missing out on a sunnah and
you are missing out on reward. So you
want to make sure that you're not doing
that. So now getting back to our concept
of the trial of
iman, the this is something that you
have to take ownership of and surround
yourself with righteous people. Number
two, the trial of wealth. This portion
of the surah is meant to show us uh the
reality of the life of this world and
how everything is finite and it came
from Allah and to Allah subhana wa
ta'ala it shall return and do not get
more attached to the life of this world
then you get attached to Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala then you get attached to Allah
subhana wa ta'ala you know let's take a
a page out of uh
our mujahed's book and she says that you
can't um you know have uh have more
feelings for the gift than you can have
for the giver himself subhana wa ta'ala
that don't be more attracted don't be
more connected to the gift than you are
to the giver subhanahu wa ta'ala that
everything that Allah subhanaa tala has
given us it should not lead us to
compromise our so you understand the
true reality of the life of this world
that it is a distraction it is fleeting
it will be taken away and that which is
permanent and better is the life of the
hereafter is the life of the hereafter.
Then number three is the trial of
knowledge. Mus Alisam is asked do you
know who the most knowledgeable person
is? He says that he himself is then
Allah subhana wa tala reveals that
there's someone more knowledgeable in so
there is a level of intellectual
humility that is required from Mus
Alisam to go and seek this knowledge
with and this teaches us some very
important points over here and obviously
the the the topic of patience is so
important in this section over here and
we'll get to that when we study the the
story inshallah but if you look at the
topic of intellectual humility where you
may think that you know a lot but always
continuously learn. always continuously
learn and very fascinating two suras
ahead we have surah and inah the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam is given the
only commandment of asking for an
increment in something meaning that the
prophet was commanded ask for an
increment in and it wasn't im it wasn't
salah it wasn't any of the things that
we would often think but it is
itself that oh my lord increase me in
knowledge increase me in knowledge. So
intellectual humility in making sure
that we know that we don't know
everything and we can always seek more
and that there are people that are more
knowledgeable than us and that we should
seek knowledge with them. You know
uh and imari reports
from that you should seek knowledge from
those uh younger than you, those at your
level and those older than you. As for
those that are younger than you, this
will instill humility inside you and you
will be motivated by their level of
enthusiasm. Those that are equal to you,
this will help alleviate any jealousy
that you may have. And this will also
create a sense of healthy competition in
getting closer to Allah subhana wa
ta'ala. And then those that are older
than you, you benefit from their wisdom,
their longevity in terms of how long
they've been serving the dean of Allah
subhana wa ta'ala. Um and and this is
why you should you know uh seek
knowledge from all three categories
younger equal and older and inshallah
we'll discuss that all in detail uh when
we talk about the story of MS and and
then last but not least the trial of
fame which comes with the trial of
leadership and the trial of power in the
story of meaning when Allah subhana wa
ta gives you power and leadership and
authority what are you meant to do with
You're meant to serve the dean of Allah
subhana wa ta'ala and you're meant to
serve humanity and make the world a
better place. So you see that dal comes
with corruption but comes with service
and protection of the
people comes with service and protection
of the people. So this is just an
attempt to look at the relationship
between uh the themes of the surah and
the protection from the themes of the
surah and the protection
of now let's focus on the virtues of
let's focus on the virtues
of soah is one of the five suras which
begin with meaning praising Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala the praising Allah
subhanana wa ta'ala. So just like we say
alhamdulillah inah fat and fat is such a
virtuous surah it is it is the the the
mother of the book or the main surah of
the Quran then Allah subhana wa ta chose
to begin this surah by praising Allah
subhana wa ta'ala as well and you'll
notice that the suras that begin with h
they actually have a very very special
message obviously all of the Quran is
special and all the Quran has messages
that we need to extract lessons from.
But particularly those suras that begin
with H have a more uh have a heavier
emphasis that we should be focusing on
reflection and learning from. We should
focus on um uh reflecting and learning
their taps from. So it brings the first
virtue we look at is that it brings
peace and relief. And I'm going to leave
the PowerPoint uh up on on the screen
and I want to read out from my own notes
and inshallah we can continue the
discussion from there. So from the
virtues of we
have so the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam said that whoever memorizes the
first 10 verses of will be protected
from and another narration it mentions
the last 10 verses. So this is what
we've discussed already. Now how do we
reconcile between this? How do we
reconcile between this? Now both of
these hadith are authentic and the
scholars mentioned that the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam he actually
mentioned it twice. He actually
mentioned it twice. So at one time he
said that whoever memorizes the
beginning will be saved and another time
he said whoever memorizes the ending
will be saved. You also have another
group of scholars that said that it is
between you know the the reason why the
prophet mentions the beginning and the
ending was so that the whole entire
surah can be memorized and that is the
goal that we want to try to achieve. If
you are able to memorize the whole
entire surah, that is the ideal case
scenario. But if you're not able to
memorize the whole entire surah, then at
least memorize the first 10 and memorize
the last 10 and memorize the last 10.
And then the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam in another narration he
says in a longer narration that talks
about the jal and the trials that come
along with him. The prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam told us to recite the
beginning of
surah for protection against him. mean
that whoever amongst you lives to the
time of then let him read uh
sorry I said forgive me that was a
mistake on my
part the beginning of and that is what
will protect you against the so as you
can see there's perhaps a leaning
towards the first 10 uh but if you're
able to memorize the whole surah that is
ideal if not the beginning 10 and the
last 10 and then whoever lives to the
time of to regularly recite the
beginning
of in another narration it is mentioned
that whoever reads it will be given
light between heaven and earth and it
will protect him from the trial of the
grave and this is reported
by so we've spoken about being saved
from the trials of a dal and here we
have from the trials of the grave as
well from the trials of the grave as
well and the trials of the grave is a a
very fascinating discussion because you
have multiple layers to it. So from the
hadith
of we see that every individual will
face some sort of squeezing inside of
the grave and that is something that
everyone will have to go through and
based upon the level of purification
then that is how much uh struggle a
person will go through. And this is you
know just to go on a quick tangent over
here that when we look at the topic of
trials and tests what is the purpose
behind them while we are alive the
primary purpose behind them is to bring
us closer to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and then the secondary purpose and this
ties into even after we die is to purify
us of our sins to purify us of our sins.
So while you are alive through the
hardships and calamities and trials that
you go through, you're being purified of
your sins. Then at the time of death,
there's another phase of purification
that you will go through through
sickness, through the pangs of death and
the fear that you face at that time.
Then in the itself being questioned
by may Allah subhana wa ta'ala make that
easy for us. There is another test at
that time and that too will purify us of
our sins. Being in our graves will
purify us for our for our sins. Being
resurrected on the day of judgment and
going through the chaos that will take
place on that day will purify us of our
sins. And then also going through all of
the affairs like crossing over the sat
um and then um going you know seeing the
observing the hellfire all those will
purify our sins till we actually receive
our records till we actually receive our
records. And at that time if there are
still believers that need to be purified
they will be uh dipped into the hellfire
meaning that they will spend a small
portion in the hellfire and then they
will be uh removed and entered into
paradise and this will only be for the
believers. Now people who are destined
to go to the hellfire for a short period
of time, they can be protected through
the intercession of the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam where their
time can be completely absolved or at
the very least uh decreased. At the very
least decreased and all of this happens
because when people enter paradise they
have to be in their purest form. They
have to be in their purest form and that
is why this constant purification of
sins needs to take place. And that is
why if you can minimize your sins and if
you and when we do commit sins we
quickly follow it up with TBA and it
makes us of the pure and it will
facilitate that journey for us even
more. It will facilitate that journey
for us even more because we will not
need those extra levels of purification
and thus Allah subhana wa ta'ala will
make it easier for us. Thus Allah
subhana wa ta'ala will make it easier
for us
from we
have
that who narrates that the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam said whoever
recites on Friday a light will be
illuminated for him until the following
Friday. A light will be illuminated for
him until the following Friday. And
another version we also
have in another version of the same
hadith mentions that the light will be
illuminated uh between them and the
ancient house meaning thea. Now this
concept of light how do we meant to how
are we meant to understand it? We
understand it that the person will have
n on their face. There will be a
radiance on their face. We also
understand it is that uh light
particularly when it comes to the Quran
is often a source of guidance is a a
source of of direction. So meaning that
this person will make better decisions
and will be more guided and will be more
guided. And if you tie it back to the
surah, if you look at all the things of
the the four main themes of you know
protecting your iman and understanding
the reality of the of the life of this
world, the continuously seeking
knowledge and having intellectual
humility and recognizing what power,
fame and authority are meant to look
like. All of these things will help you
make better decisions in your life. All
of these things will help you make
better decisions in your life. So this
is an understanding of uh of light and
also that special ti that comes from
Allah subhana wa tala also that special
tihi that comes from Allah subhanahu
wa'ta'ala. Then we move to the topic of
bringing peace and relief which is what
you have um as the first one. So we have
that uh a man recited alah and there was
an animal in the house which began
acting in a nervous manner. He looked
and saw a fog or cloud over uh the
animal's head. He mentioned this to the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam who
said keep on reciting for this is the
tranquility which descends when one
reads Quran or because of reading Quran.
And this is reported in Sah Muslim. This
is reported in Sah Muslim. to this topic
of bringing serenity and tranquility
um through the Quran the example that is
used of surah now let us look at what is
the potential wisdom behind this why did
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
specify this forah because you'll find
in all of these suras uh sorry in all of
the stories in surah Allah subhana wa
ta'ala takes care of the righteous Allah
subhana wa ta'ala takes care of the
righteous so we have the people of the
book Allahh as We the sorry the people
of the cave Allah subhana wa tala takes
care of them. You have the example of
the stories in Mus Allah subhana wa
ta'ala takes example uh sorry takes um
gives us the example of those people and
how Allahhana gave them the best of
conclusions. Same thing with and then
even the man with the two gardens were
taught how not to act. We're taught how
not to act. Correct? So the righteous
people will always have a good ending
and as long as you're constantly
reminded of that that yes you may go
through hardships yes you may go through
calamities and trials but as long as you
have that good ending you will feel a
peace of serenity and tranquility along
with the natural sakina that comes with
reciting the Quran along with a natural
sakina that comes with reciting the
Quran. Now what I want to conclude the
virtue section with is a statement from
Imah who says that whoever recites the
last five verses of before going to
sleep. Then Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
will wake them up at any time in the
night that they want. One of the
narrators of this report mentions that
he tried it and he worked. Meaning that
it serves as some sort of spiritual
alarm clock. So for those of us that are
trying to wake up for than for and
perhaps we're finding difficulty in it,
you know, there's a a three- tiered
approach that uh we should try our best
to take. Number one, minimizing our
sins. Number two, making for our sins.
And then number three, reciting these
five verses uh before one goes to bed.
And they will help facilitate it. uh as
per what Imam Alto reports and how one
of the narrators tried it and
experienced that it worked for them and
experienced that it worked for them. Now
the last thing I'll
mention as a part of our conclusion and
this is something that we we don't find
over here but one of the things that the
surah uh is meant to do for us meaning
that if we truly paid attention to it
and truly focused uh on it is that this
surah is meant to be a criterion between
what Islam is meant to look like versus
all other false ideologies all other
false narratives, all other false uh
ideas that encroach into the Muslim
community that encroach into the Muslim
community. And this is something that
has been highlighted by some of the
mufasin that this story or this surah
rather is about the preservation of
Islam as a whole. The preservation of
Islam as a whole and what needs to be
done. highlighting the importance of
constantly seeking knowledge and
constantly being in search of the most
knowledgeable people to benefit from
them. Then number two, protecting your
iman and surrounding yourself with
righteous people. The importance of not
being belligerent and having bad and
badl with the creation of Allah, but
also with Allah subhana wa ta'ala that
how can Allah subhana wa ta'ala give you
everything yet you attribute partners
and rivals to Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala.
And then last but not least, at some
point or another, we will all have
levels of authority and levels of power.
What are we going to do with it? What
are we going to do with it? Right? So,
all of this gets covered in the surah.
All of this gets covered in the surah.
And this is something that uh the maf
mentioned that I wanted to share with
you. Now, let's uh exit full screen. And
I am back. Alhamdulillah. Okay. Um, can
everyone see me now? Is everyone can
everyone see me?
Alhamdulillah for that for that. So,
with that being said, I wanted to keep
the introduction uh light and for all of
your participation. It's been uh
amazing. I will now open up the floor
for questions and uh to answer some of
your comments and we can take it uh from
there. So I will scroll up the chat box
first and then look over there. Um okay
that question was
answered. Uh so Sami Sultan
with Okay.
Um so there is no book that is correct.
There is no book for this course and you
are meant to be using um the surah
itself. So what I would suggest is that
if you go to quran.com there are
actually three translations that I would
recommend that you use simultaneously
and you'll benefit from all the
translations. So number one is by Dr.
Mustafa number two is by Dr. Abdul
Khaleim MS Abdim and then number three
by uh Dr.
Fulman by Dr. Father Sulman. Use these
three translations as you're going
through and you're studying it and this
will really uh enhance your uh learning.
This will really enhance your
learning and obviously if you have any
if you have access to any books of
yourself. So you'll find that online you
can access the English the summary of no
the translation the English translation
of the summary of Iban Kafir for free
online. So just type in uh English
online and you will get access to it. So
do try to use that as supplemental
reading as well and likewise any um
other books of that you may have access
to as
well. Okay. Uh and then this was with
the last five verses. So the question
about waking up
for uh mentions the last five verses the
last five verses. Okay. So now uh to all
of those that
said, can you repeat the name of the dua
that we're recommended to recite after
salah? So it's not meant to be said
after salah. It is at the end of the
salah. Meaning that before you
sayalamlaykumahalamlaykumah. So if you
look up dua from the protection uh dua
for the protection from a inn Muslim or
the dua it will come up over there. It
will come up over there. And that is the
dua that you're meant to say
um before you
say this is one of the duas that is
being narrated for that time.
Then we have a next question. Asalam
alalaykum. I have a question. Is kadr a
prophet or what is he? I've been trying
to find an answer for this question but
no one seems to answer my question. Um
so now that like I'll explain why you
won't get a clear answer because Allah
subhana wa ta'ala didn't refer to him as
a prophet or messenger. And at the same
time he had received revelation but not
revelation in terms of an actual book
like the previous messengers and
prophets but revelation with regards to
how to interact with certain people and
how the certain things were going to be
happening like the young boy that was
killed and the treasure that was buried
uh and so on and so forth. Right? So
that is why you will get an unclear
answer. That is why you will get an
unclear answer. And that is
um why you'll actually find a difference
of
pivot. some people saying that he isn't
and Allah subhana t knows best but it
seems closer to the truth and we'll
study this at the time when it comes
that he wasn't a prophet that he wasn't
a prophet but with regards to how this
impacts our iman
whether was a prophet or not will not
really impact us we're not going to be
questioned about this but we believe
that he was a righteous man whom
Allahhana ta gave knowledge and wisdom
to we believe he was a righteous man
that Allahhana ta gave knowledge and
wisdom too. With regards to the taps,
um, what I was mentioning was the
translations. So, if you go to
quran.com, you'll find translations of
the Quran. And there are three that I'd
recommend. Mustafa, MS Abdul Haleem, and
Dr. Fman. And then likewise online, you
can find um the abridge the translation
of the abridgement of Ib Kir for free.
Just type in English translation or
Englishb and it'll come up and you can
look
up over there and you can use that as
your reference. You can use that as your
reference. Oh yes, I can definitely uh
put it in the chat box inshallah. I'll
do that right now. Uh so
Mustaf Abdul Haleem
three uh
Fle I may have misspelled his last name.
So those are from quran.com and then uh
English
Ib. So for the English Kir just do a
Google search for the first three if you
go to quran.com you can um look up those
translations on
quran.com awan. Okay so now okay we've
done that. Can you please repeat what
the the five verses uh
during
so who's one of the great scholars of he
mentions that from the virtues of the
surah is that if you were to recite the
last five verses
of before going to sleep then Allah
subhana wa ta'ala will give you the
ability to wake up for and Allahhana
will give you the ability to wake up for
And
the amikum this may have been answered
later on but ayah 84 and 85 speak of we
gave him everything we gave him from
everything away so he followed away is
the way what you mentioned in service to
the dean of Allah uh so yeah we'll
definitely be discussing this when we
get there we'll definitely be discussing
this when we get
there okay that's been uh is it true
that al is still alive the prophet
sallallah sallallahu alaihi wasallam. He
says in a very uh explicit hadith that
whoever is alive right now will not be
aliveundred years from now. Will not be
alive 100 years from now. And this is
what the majority of scholars have used
to say
that is not alive. This is what the
majority of scholars have used to say
that is not alive. You have a minority
of scholars that have said that is alive
and they claim this because of their
interactions with a man that they
assumed to be or claimed to be but that
doesn't uh negate what the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam said and we
say that this was from the that they
made and um as we know that when the
makesh and they're correct they get two
rewards but if they're mistaken then
they get one reward then they get one
reward. reward. Now let us go into the
question box. So
um I heard two things regarding saying
inshallah. I don't know how accurate.
Um okay this question is a bit
confusing. Yajj and Majj keep trying to
break through the wall until they say
inshallah and alisam had 99 wives. uh
all of these stories are are mentioned
with regards to inshallah and we'll
discuss them once we get to that verse.
But yes, they've all been narrated that
yajooj and majj they won't escape from
their wall. They won't be able to
penetrate that wall up until one of them
says inshallah and then the next day
they're able to do so. And then likewise
uh he had multiple wives and that he
visited them all and all of them became
pregnant yet they all
um miscarried. They all miscarried
because he didn't say inshallah because
Alisam was actually trying to create an
army. Both of these stories have been
narrated and Allah knows best. When
reciting on Friday is it referring to
recitation of the whole surah or just
the first 10 verses or the last 10
verses?
Reciting from after on Friday till Jum
is the preferred time is the preferred
time but it can be recited from any time
after on Thursday till m on Friday. Now
you should recite the whole entire surah
if possible. You should recite the whole
entire surah if possible. But if you're
not able to then recite whatever you can
if you're not able to recite whatever
you can.
What was the connection
between
and that is something we will explore.
That is something that we will
explore. But you have general themes of
uh hardships and calamity and overcoming
those hardships and calamity and the
trial of dealing with people and how the
good out and positive outcome will
always be um for the righteous like
these are reoccurring themes that you
will find.
But this is something that we will
explore as well inshallah. Is it the
book regarding connections between the
suras available in English? I have not
come across uh that book in English. Um
but maybe someone knows better than I
do. It's called
uh by and you can actually look up
relationship between uh the suras and
the verses in English and something may
have come up. Something may have come
up.
You mentioned that is also recited for
protection from trials of the grave. Is
this a hadith from the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam? Should we
recite uh the 10 verses or the entire
surah? So this is the the concept of
being protection from the grave. This is
something that
im mentions. This is something that
im mentions and he brings his and brings
the hadith to support it. Now what we
want to look at is certain times when it
comes to virtuous deeds the hadith may
not meet the criterion of being a or
hadith but as long as there aren't any
fabricators or liars inside the chain of
narration the scholars have allowed
acting upon it the scholars have allowed
acting upon it and therefore what I
would say is that whoever
memorizes and hopes the best from Allah
subhanaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
then Allah subhana wa ta'ala will
protect him and Allah subhana wa ta'ala
will protect him and this is a part of
our assuming the best of Allah subhana
wa ta'ala and Allah subhana wa ta'ala
knows
best uh if we listen to the surah will
we still get uh rewards you will get a
you will get the reward of listening to
the surah you will get the reward board
of listening to the surah but it will
not be the same as reciting the surah.
So if someone struggles to recite the
surah and they listen and follow along
while reading then they will still be
rewarded. If they listen and follow
along they will still be rewarded. But
if they're only listening they're only
getting the the reward for listening to
the
Quran. Now sometimes I get too busy to
to read I try my best. Is there a way to
get the benefits of the surah on Friday
without reading the whole surah? May
Allah subhana wa ta make it easy for
you. And what I would suggest is that
oftent times because um you know we
can't take long breaks to read the whole
entire thing why don't we break it down.
So for example after on Thursday try
reciting uh 20 ayat. After fud on Friday
try reciting 20 ayat.
After after jum or after on Friday
depending on your situation try reciting
20 ayat. And then after 20 ayat and
before 20 ayat and that way inshallah
you can cover a lot of the surah. You
can cover a lot of the
surah. May Allahh make it easy for you.
Uh do we need to finish your studies
before the of J? That is the preferred
thing to do. That is the preferred thing
to do. However, if a person does it
before, then it is still acceptable. If
a person does it before, it is still
acceptable. So my dear brothers and
sisters, I think this has been a good
first introductory session and this is
where we where we will conclude.
And then next week we will start with uh
the first uh 10 verses of surahul kaf.
Next week we will begin with the first
10 verses of surahul kaf. Uh do you
recommend reading it within the last
hour after to get the rewards? No surah
kaf can be recited any time after on
Thursday till on Friday but preferably
before jum preferably before jum. So
let's conclude with this my dear
brothers and sisters for your attention
and for your participation. May Allah
subhanaa tala make it heavy on your
skill of good deeds. A mean and accept
from us all. A meanh